Congratulations to all the winners! I would also like to express my gratitude to the organizers for preparing such an exciting competition.
I devoted a significant amount of time and effort to this competition from the very beginning, so I am truly delighted that this has resulted in a gold medal.

Overall Summary
The key factors in my approach were (1) building diverse models and ensembling them, and (2) applying post-processing by leveraging previously inferred test samples. The idea of creating diverse models was inspired by my past gold medal solution in the HMS competition. Since HMS also dealt with time-series sensor data, some of the model ideas in this competition came directly from that experience.

Models
Common Settings Across All Models
Trained separate models for IMU only and IMU + TOF + THM (All).
Trained five different models (i–v) and ensembled them via weighted averaging.
Used publicly shared IMU feature sets.
18-class output.
Employed standard Cross-Entropy loss.
Augmentation methods varied slightly by model, but mixup was consistently effective (except for plot-2DCNN).
For sequences longer than 224, used the last 224 timesteps; for shorter sequences, applied padding.
Preprocessing: applied mean-std normalization (except for plot-2DCNN, which used fixed-value clipping).
StratifiedGroupKFold (5-folds)
i) raw-2DCNN
This idea was introduced by a teammate in the HMS competition and achieved the best performance among my five models. The input images for the 2DCNN are as follows. All signals except TOF were stacked into 16 pixels, while TOF was left unstacked. Upscaling the width to double (448 pixels in width) further improved the score. The model architecture is EfficientNetV2-B2 (B1 for IMU-only).



ii) plot-2DCNN
This was the idea I personally used in HMS. The input images for the 2DCNN are as follows. TOF part processed the same as in raw-2DCNN. The model architecture is EfficientNetV2-B1.



iii) 1DCNN-GRU-Attention
A lightly modified version of a public notebook model.

iv) 1DCNN-BERT
Same as iii), except the GRU-Attention module was replaced with a BERT.

v) Mix of 1DCNN & Transformer
Based on models used in past competition solutions, but adjusted with smaller dim, ksize, and fewer layers.

Post-processing
Two days before the competition deadline, I discovered this technique and achieved a significant score boost (~+0.010). The basic idea is similar to the one discussed in this thread.
I modified the prediction() function in the submission code into a class method, storing the predictions of previously inferred samples in self.history variable. This allowed the model to access past predictions. For each subject ID, I counted predictions per class, then penalized predictions belonging to classes with high counts.

CV & LB
Model	IMU only CV	All CV	Public LB	Private LB
raw-2DCNN	0.7972	0.8773	-	-
plot-2DCNN	0.7695	0.8632	-	-
1DCNN-GRU-Attention	0.7999	0.8437	-	-
1DCNN-BERT	0.7834	0.8385	-	-
Mix of 1DCNN & Transformer	0.7883	0.8282	-	-
5 Models Ensemble	0.8211	0.8945	0.868	0.846
Ensemble + Post-process	-	0.9044	0.884	0.858
Author
D.Imanishi
dimanishi


Share
Citation
D.Imanishi. 15th place solution. https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/cmi-detect-behavior-with-sensor-data/writeups/15th-place-solution. 2025. Kaggle


React
6 Comments
Hotness
 
Comment here. Be patient, be friendly, and focus on ideas. We're all here to learn and improve!
This comment will be made public once posted.


Post Comment
Quan Vu
Posted 10 months ago

· 30th in this Competition

I had the idea of combining raw data with a type of image data. However, I failed in using spectrograms because the number of samples over time was quite small. I also thought about plotting images but haven't tried it yet. Thank you for letting me know that plotting images could be a workable solution. However, it seems my concern was correct. The accuracy on the IMU-only model is somewhat low when only using plot images.


Reply

React
Timmy Juicehouse
Posted 10 months ago

· 66th in this Competition

Due to GPU limitations and long training time, I give up the 2D model to process ToF. It's amazing to see your method.


Reply

React
Muku
Posted 10 months ago

· 13th in this Competition

Congratulations on finishing in the gold zone!
I'm truly impressed by your excellent 2D-based solution. (I should have spent more time digging into 2D models…)

Since we both joined this competition from the early stages, I’ve personally seen you as a friendly rival throughout.
I’m really happy that both of us were able to finish with good results in the end :)


Reply

1
Taha_Alshatiri
Posted 10 months ago

· 29th in this Competition

Congrats on your solution I really liked it, I knew it all the time I even saw your solution in the HMS 2 months ago and i was almost sure you and light source used cnn models on plots or spectogram, I should've worked more on the idea myself and stop following public baselines but that is a lesson for me


Reply

React
lightsource<3
Posted 10 months ago

· 11th in this Competition

Congrats on the gold! Your image models are very strong, surprisingly they came out better than 1d cnn. I couldn't even get the image models close to raw 1d models


Reply

React
minghigh
Posted 10 months ago

· 203rd in this Competition

Congratulations!

All signals except TOF were stacked into 16 pixels,

25x16, do you have 25 features? What is this number 16?


Reply

React